Enhance and simplify contribution documentation (#9172)
Shopify/polaris: polaris.shopify.com/content/contributing/index.md

---
title: Contributing to Polaris
navTitle: Contributing
description: Polaris is built for merchants, by you.
keywords:
  - how to contribute to polaris
  - contribution
  - contribute
order: 10
newSection: true
icon: MobilePlusMajor
---

> All Shopify employees, regardless of discipline, are encouraged to contribute to Polaris. We welcome everything from copy edits and bug fixes to new components and patterns. We also consider feedback from our open source community.

Reviewer: I would leave patterns out of the mix right now, as we don't have a process for contributions to that section yet.

Should we leave this as "Anyone" since we're open source? 

```suggestion
Anyone, regardless of discipline, is encouraged to contribute to Polaris. We welcome everything from copy edits and bug fixes to new components.
```

## Should I contribute?

Contributions should address a known issue or gap in the system, and they should add value at scale. Sometimes unique solutions are best for the user, but they don’t necessarily need to be in Polaris. You can still build custom solutions using Polaris [tokens](/tokens) and best practices.

Minor contributions—like copy edits, bug fixes, and icons—are often worthwhile. They’re simple to implement, and they improve system quality and trust.

Major contributions, like patterns or some components, typically require more evaluation. This flowchart will help you decide whether or not your solution is right for Polaris. If you’re unsure, reach out to the Polaris team directly.

<iframe style="border: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);" width="800" height="450" src="https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2FAJNvON5VAAG5vZAnX6iuVJ%2FShould-I-contribute-to-Polaris%253F%3Fnode-id%3D0%253A1%26t%3DsSVh7oVMUM9KXOnB-1" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Contribution types

> Generally, we can classify contributions as minor or major. Minor contributions can be made by an individual or a small team, and the solution is often clear and simple. Major contributions usually introduce breaking changes to the system and require greater involvement from the Polaris team.

Reviewer: Patches like bug fixes or minor updates can be very time consuming and difficult, and major  can be fairly straight forward. It might be confusing to folks if we refer to levels of commitment or difficulty using the names of Semver version types (patch, minor, major). Maybe we can lean into the major/minor categorization and use this section to teach people which versions their contributions target? Something like...

```suggestion
Changes to the design system typically target upcoming semantic versions of the Polaris npm packages they affect: patch, minor, or major. Patch contributions are fixes to existing code, documentation, or Figma assets, while minor contributions are additions or updates. Major contributions introduce breaking changes and require collaboration with the Polaris team.
```

Author: The idea here is to talk about level of impact, not effort. Often folks don't understand the scope or impact of a change.  I think talking in terms of impact helps us set proper expectations and ask the right types of questions since there are usually system wide considerations.

> Specific contribution types include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

> - Bug fixes and documentation (minor)
> - Icon additions or updates (minor)
> - Component additions or updates
>   - Style changes (minor)
>   - New or redesigned components (major)
>   - API change (major)
> - Patterns (major)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bug fix or copy edit (patch)
- Icon or component addition (minor)
- Component prop removal (major)
```

## How to contribute

With the exception of our Figma UI kits, all contributions to Polaris are made through GitHub. Check out the directions for each contribution type:

- [Documentation](/contributing/documentation)
- [Components](/contributing/components)
- [Icons](/contributing/icons)
- [Figma UI kit](/contributing/figma-ui-kit)
- Patterns (reach out to #polaris directly in Slack)

> Minor contributions can usually be started directly through a GitHub pull request, but if you’re unsure, you can always check with the Polaris team. For major contributions, we recommend creating a contribution proposal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Minor or patch contributions can usually be started directly through a GitHub pull request, but if you’re unsure, you can always check with the Polaris team. For major contributions, we recommend creating a contribution proposal.
```
